this is lesson1

git clone = It is used to create/download a specific existing git repository to your local computer.
git fetch = Downloads commits, files add refs from a remote repository into your local repository. 
git add = Git add command add content from a working directory into a staging area (or "index") for the next commit.
git commit = A commit is like a save point in your project, it records a snapshot of your files at a certain time, with a message decribing what changed.
git branch = A branch a seperate workspace where you can make changes try new ideas without affecting the main project.
git pull = Pull command is used to fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content.
git push = Push command is used to move changes from the local repository to the remote .
git merge =  Merge is used combine the changes from one branch into another. 
git init = Init command creates a new, empty git repository or reinitializes an existing one.
git status = Status command is used to display the state of the working directory and the staging area.

Web Terminologies
HTTPs = Hypertext transfer protocol secure is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used data between a web browser and a website.
IP = Internet protocol address is a numerical label that is assigned to a device connected to a computer network that uses the internet protocol for communication.
ISP = Internet service provider is a company that provides individuals and organisations access to in ternet and other related servics.
SERVER = A server is a computer or system that provides resources, data, services, or programs to other computers, known as clients over a net
HOST = Is a computer or other device connected to a computer network.
CLIENT = A client is a computer or software application that requests and receives services or information from another computer or server.
URL = Uniform resource locator is the  web address used to find and access resources like web page, files, or image on the internet.
URI = Iniform resource identifier is a unique sequence of characters that identifies an abstract or physical resource, such as resourceon the webpage, email address phone number e.t.c. 
DNS = The domain name system is the "phonebook of the internet", translating human-readable domain names into machine-readable IP address. 
Domain Extension = they are the suffix at the end of web address (like .com, .org, .net, e.t.c.) that indicate a website's purpose, location or type, helping users understand its intent at a glance.
sub-domain = A sub domain act as an extensionof your primary domain, allowing you to organize your site into different sections or categories without purchasing additional domains.
web mail = Web mail are web-based email accounts. these are usually free email accounts that are operated from the a website. example hotmail, gmail, yahoo mail.
html = Hypertext markup language is the most basic building block of the web. it defines the meaning and structure of web content.
